.TH MINECRAFT-PING 1 "2026-04-17" "minecraft-ping" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
minecraft-ping \- measure Minecraft server latency with ping-style ergonomics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minecraft-ping
.RI [ options ] " destination"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B minecraft-ping
measures Minecraft Java Edition and Bedrock Edition server latency while
keeping the command-line experience close to Unix
.BR ping .
Java Edition is the default.
Bedrock Edition is selected explicitly with
.B --bedrock
or
.BR "--edition bedrock" .
.PP
Text mode runs as a session and prints a summary when the session ends.
JSON mode performs a single probe and emits one JSON object for scripting.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -4
Use IPv4 only.
.TP
.B -6
Use IPv6 only.
.TP
.BI "-c " count
Stop after
.I count
probes.
.TP
.BI "-i " interval
Wait
.I interval
seconds between probes.
This value must be positive and may be fractional.
.TP
.BI "-w " deadline
Stop after
.I deadline
seconds.
This value must be positive and may be fractional.
.TP
.BI "-W " timeout
Wait
.I timeout
seconds for each probe.
This value must be positive, may be fractional, and must not exceed 30 seconds.
.TP
.B -q
Quiet mode.
Suppress per-probe reply lines and print only the banner and summary.
.TP
.B -D
Prefix live reply lines with a Unix timestamp.
.TP
.B -n
Use numeric output only.
.TP
.B -j
Emit a single JSON probe result.
This mode is intended for scripts and automation.
.TP
.B --allow-private
Allow loopback, private, link-local, and documentation-only IP targets.
Use this only when you intentionally want to probe a local or private host.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI "--edition " kind
Select the Minecraft edition.
Supported values are
.B java
and
.BR bedrock .
.TP
.B --java
Alias for
.BR "--edition java" .
.TP
.B --bedrock
Alias for
.BR "--edition bedrock" .
.SH DESTINATIONS
The destination is positional and may be one of:
.IP \(bu 2
.I host
.IP \(bu 2
.I host:port
.IP \(bu 2
.I [ipv6]:port
.IP \(bu 2
a bare IPv6 literal such as
.I 2001:db8::20
.PP
Default ports:
.IP \(bu 2
Java Edition: 25565
.IP \(bu 2
Bedrock Edition over IPv4: 19132
.IP \(bu 2
Bedrock Edition over IPv6: 19133
.PP
If a port is present in the destination, it always wins.
.SH JSON MODE
JSON mode emits one object to standard output:
.PP
.EX
{"server":"mc.example.com","latency_ms":12}
.EE
.PP
The
.B server
field contains the destination host.
The
.B latency_ms
field contains the measured latency in whole milliseconds.
.PP
The
.B -j
option is incompatible with
.BR -c ,
.BR -i ,
.BR -w ,
.BR -q ,
and
.BR -D .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
At least one reply was received, or a JSON probe succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
No replies were received, or a JSON probe reached the probe step and failed.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid argv or a setup or runtime error occurred
before a meaningful probe completed,
including JSON prepare or setup failures.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
minecraft-ping mc.example.com
minecraft-ping -c 3 mc.example.com
minecraft-ping --bedrock play.example.com
minecraft-ping --bedrock -6 2001:db8::20
minecraft-ping --bedrock play.example.com:19133
minecraft-ping --allow-private 127.0.0.1:25565
minecraft-ping -j mc.example.com
.EE
.SH PROTOCOL NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Java probing uses the Minecraft status and ping/pong handshake over TCP.
.IP \(bu 2
Java performs an SRV lookup only when probing
Java Edition with a hostname and no explicit port.
.IP \(bu 2
Bedrock probing uses RakNet unconnected ping/pong over UDP.
.IP \(bu 2
The tool does not fake ICMP-only fields such as
.BR ttl ,
byte counts, or
.BR icmp_seq .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/man1/minecraft-ping.1
or
.IR /usr/share/man/man1/minecraft-ping.1.gz
Installed man page provided by Linux packages.
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/minecraft-ping/README.md
Packaged project overview.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ping (8)
